# FlatMate

Feasibility Study 

Technical Considerations 

Existing technologies can be utilized to implement and support this web application. The core feature revolves around analyzing YouTube videos and generating interactive questions to assess the user’s understanding of the language they're learning.  

We plan to utilize YouTube Transcript API’s to retrieve the transcripts or captions of the videos, taking into consideration that not all the YouTube videos will have captions available, and some may have auto-generated captions that could affect the quality of the transcript retrieved. In these cases, we will handle it with messages or mechanisms that will inform the user that the system is unable to retrieve a transcript for these YouTube videos. 

LLM (Large Language Models) will be used to analyze the transcripts, and generate questions in the language the user’s native language. For instance, if the user’s first language is English and trying to learn Spanish, the questions will be generated in the English context of the Spanish video being used for learning. The depth of the information and questions will be dependent on the LLM’s performance and prompt quality. 

We will be using GitBucket for programming, Taiga to project tracking and management,  and Blackboard Group as another form of communication and file exchange. We will have a Frontend, Backend, Database and a Cloud Host. For the frontend were using JavaScript as the main programming language, and potentially React for interactivity. The backend will utilize Node.js, Postgres for the database aspects and a cloud host such as Amazon Web Services or Google Cloud Platform. 

Given the maturity of the technologies involved as well as the API’s and cloud servers available, our software is technically feasible.

Operational Considerations 

The software is designed for users who are learning a new language and using YouTube videos as one of the ways to do so. It will use Ollama LLM to generate the appropriate questions from the transcript’s context. The software will operate in a way that is intuitive and aligns with the user’s habits and learning strategies. The questions generated by the software will be in the user’s native language, so the flow in which the user will learn while using the software is expected to be smooth and intuitive. Features like the interactive quizzes throughout the video is set to improve the learning experience for the user and work as motivation to continue learning. It is implemented so that it requires minimal training to get used to.  

The system will be compatible with the browsers that people commonly use such as Chrome and Edge. This adds onto it’s intuitive capabilities. The user interface will be implemented in a user-friendly way, so that the user wont be overwhelmed or overstimulated as they use the software. It can be adopted into any context, whether it be a person learning a language out of interest or students learning a language in school, the software caters to all these scenarios, which ensures its operationally feasible.  

Schedule Considerations 

For scheduling our main consideration is that we have four sprints to complete our project.  This means we will need to stay on top of our work and follow a plan for each sprint (As we have loosely laid out in the next paragraph). Other things we have considered are the amount of time available to meet. We all have busy schedules but with 2 hours of tutorial time, 1 hour of mentoring and two hours of lectures a week we believe we will be able to meet often enough to collaboratively build our website. A large amount of the coding will be done out of these hours but will be reviewed and discussed each time we meet to ensure we are on track and no one is stuck. If we see a need we can schedule more meeting times. 

 

Our sprints will be broken down as follows. The first sprint is devoted to ideation, planning, feasibility and the development of user story’s. The second sprint will mainly be involved with setting up our project and completing a minimum viable product. Our third sprint will be where the bulk of our extra features like our dashboard and stats will be completed. The fourth and final sprint will focus on refining features and the style of the website and deployment. 